# Effective-Warehouse-Management
Developed a SQL database connected with Python for analytics. Designed Enhanced ER, UML, and implemented relational models via MySQL and NoSQL. The system tracks goods from shipment to end-user, optimizing inventory management. With UI and security enhancements, this database will be industry-ready.

## Exclusive Summary:

The primary objective of this study was to design and implement a sophisticated relational database that can be used by the warehouses that supply goods to distribution centers and to stores from there where the end user can buy online or offline. Sorting out all the data that one gets in this industry is humongous for which the old-fashioned invoicing cannot do the job of maintaining all the data under one roof. As this is a big industry that has a lot of scope for expansion, as the industry is this big, profit margins are smaller on single items but on whole it has good margins in profits, because of these low profits on items, the margin of error is very minimal. While looking at this huge industry people are still using old-fashioned invoicing outward and inward data, which is not as efficient as the relational database.<br>

This database can be connected to a Python application platform. Get all the data from the database then work on the analysis part to get the insights from the data also the warehouse management can find out the trend of the consumers at what time of the year. As the preferences of people change concerning the seasons. And maintain the stock according to the trend along with a bit of buffer stock.<br>

The database was modeled taking requirements of data fields that are required for the warehouse to the end user which includes distribution centers, stores, consumers, online orders also about goods. The UML and EER diagrams were designed keeping the business model and structure in mind followed by mapping the conceptual model to a relational model with the required primary and foreign keys. This database was then fully implemented fully MySQL with a well-structured 16 tables and several relationships were implemented between tables after that these tables were read in MongoDB with Studio3T GUI to study all the tables in a NoSQL environment<br>

The created Database is a great hit, and by connecting it to Python, the analytics competencies are enormous, some of which have been shown in this study with the graphical representation of the intuitions. These queries can be very helpful in tracking inward, outward, distribution, percentages of distribution, and a lot more like these.<br>

## Introduction:

A warehouse is a place where raw materials or manufactured goods may be stored before their export or distribution to centers, from centers, the goods are then distributed to stores where they met the end user either online or offline. Maintaining such huge volumes of data in an old-fashioned way is not practical.<br>

To extract maximum profits from warehouses they should be stocked up with the optimal number of goods, both overstocking and understocking can become a hole to the profits that they are making. Understock can ruin the chances of making profits and overstock can create more chaos if the goods expire, also the investment on overstocking becomes a dead investment and might also become a burden to maintain a lot of goods, especially food related. Keeping the details of food products which has less life span, keeping that in mind all the time and maintaining them requires a lot of ground men on work. Which is an additional burden on the warehouse organizer. To cut out all these extra expenses and make more profits relational database comes into play<br>

The sales of goods like food, clothing, and electronics are very unstable, the inflow and outflow of such huge volumes and finding out the trends through invoicing method is not feasible, the trend of food, clothing, and electronics is very volatile because the preferences of the people change according to seasons which gives a huge advantage to make profits by creating a sophisticated database which can accommodate all the data that is required to find out the trend. To be precise about the trend we got to consider the goods sold in the stores by knowing from where one good is going to where in one system and the magnitude of that good. We can calculate the percentage of the goods that have been supplied to each state and district knowing this information, we can distribute the goods to the distribution center based on this information. Once the database is connected to python, numerous insights can be drawn and changes in the business cycle can be made to get profits.<br>
